+++
title = "Access logs"
description = "Web server access log details."
weight = 1
+++

The **alscan** tool is designed to read web access logs.
They were originally generated by the [Apache HTTP Server](https://httpd.apache.org/),
but the same format can be used by [nginx](https://nginx.org/en/).

# Access log formats

There are two different types of access logs which are currently supported. They are the **common** log format, and the **combined** format.
In both formats, a single line is generated for each incomming request.

The **combined** format includes the following fields:

1. The request address
    usually an IPv4 dotted decimal address, but DNS names and IPv6 notation are also supported.
2. Client identity.
    This will be a hyphen (`'-'`) in most cases. The additional overhead of the [IdentityCheck](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_ident.html#identitycheck) directive means that this is information is normally not available.
3. User identity.
    This information is available when the user is "logged-in". In most cases this is also hyphen indicating the information is not available.
4. Request time stamp.
    The date and time when the request was made.
5. HTTP Request line.
    This is normally composed of three fields:

    * Protocol request method (i.e. GET, HEAD, POST, PUT, etc.)
    * URI
    * Protocol identifier (HTTP/1.0 or HTTP/1.1)

6. Status-code
    Three digit HTTP status of request.
7. Returned object size in octets (bytes).
    A hyphen indicates no object was returned.
8. The referer (sic).
    The URI of the page which included a link to this request. A hyphen if the request was not referred.
9. The user-agent.
    A hyphen if no user-agent information was provided.
10. End-of-line.

The **common** log format does not include the referer(8) and user-agent(9) fields.

# Access log selection

Access logs can be selected by file using the `--file` option. All the files in a directory can be selected using the `--directory` option. When using standard control panel software, they can also be selected by account and domain. Currently the use of *cPanel* is recognized, when used by the root administrator, or when used by a account holder. Additional control panel software could be supported in the future.

## Selection options

* `--file`
* `--directory`

## Access log locations

The location of the log files depends upon your web server configuration. The logs themselves are site specific. When using *cPanel*, the locations of the files can be determined from the account holder name and the domain name.
